--- PAGE 1 ---
Power-aware Test Scheduling for IEEE 1687
Networks with Multiple Power Domains
Payam HabibySebastian HuhnyRolf Drechslery
University of Bremen, Germany
{habiby,huhn,drechsler}@uni-bremen.deyCyber-Physical Systems, DFKI GmbH
28359 Bremen, Germany
Abstract —New test access methodologies are required to cope
with the ever-increasing complexity of latest system-on-a-chip
designs. The IEEE 1687 standard deﬁnes an access method-
ology to embedded instruments through a reconﬁgurable scan
infrastructure. This technique allows implementing even large
networks while keeping the individual access time low since only
relevant parts of the scan chain are included in the scan path.
However, the reconﬁguration introduces a timing overhead, which
can be mitigated by accessing instruments concurrently. The
concurrent activation of instruments forms a critical aspect from
the power management perspective since latest designs consist of
multiple power domains with individual power constraints. To
avoid any test failures, it must be avoided that the total power
consumption of the concurrently activated instruments exceeds
the domain’s power limit. Particularly when considering highly
complex IEEE 1687 networks, which reveal the full potential of
the standard by introducing hierarchical and optimized networks,
the power-aware test scheduling is a non-trivial task.
This paper proposes a test scheduling scheme for complex
IEEE 1687 networks, which heavily orchestrates graph-based
methods. In the end, an optimized test plan is determined, which
ensures, on the one hand, a minimized overall test access time
and, on the other hand, full compliance with the given power
constraints. The approach’s efﬁcacy is demonstrated on state-of-
the-art benchmark sets involving complex networks with various
power domains.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The next generation of System-on-a-Chip (SoC) designs
embraces a large number of embedded components ranging
from microprocessor cores, digital-signal processors to interface
components. An effective access during test to such a variety of
heterogeneous on-chip components strictly requires a suitable
on-chip infrastructure, as typically introduced by a test network.
Such a network can be used for the manufacturing test, fault
diagnosis, debug and post-silicon validation as well as for the
maintenance, monitoring, and reconﬁguration in the ﬁeld [1].
Typically, the access to this infrastructure is based on scan
networks [2]. The IEEE 1687 standard [3] (also known as
IJTAG) implements a mechanism to reconﬁgure the scan
chains dynamically. By this, a signiﬁcant faster access to
different segments of the SoC is realized in comparison to
the legacy method of daisy chaining [4]. More precisely, such
a test network allows the reduction of the instrument access
time by varying the length of the scan-path to include only
those instruments in the path that are required for the current
session. This is realized by introducing components for the
SD Q
D Q
U
SIB
01
SI
SOTSI FSO
TDR30
1Scan Mux
SD Q
D Q
USCB TDR1
TDR2
TAPInstrument 1
Instrument 2Fig. 1. IEEE 1687 reconﬁguration components in an IJTAG network
reconﬁguration like Scan-mux Control Bits (SCBs), Segment
Insertion Bits (SIBs), and Scan Multiplexers (ScanMux) [3],
as shown in Fig. 1. In particular, SIBs operate as a switch to
include or exclude the segments from the chip-level interface.
The state of the SCBs and SIBs is deﬁned by a control bit,
which is scanned into the corresponding scan registers, and is
stored in the update registers by an update signal (from the Test
Access Port (TAP) controller). Furthermore, Fig. 1 presents the
reconﬁgurable access to the Test Data Registers (TDRs) using
an IEEE 1149.1 TAP controller [4] over an IJTAG network.
These TDRs are registers that are connected to the instruments.
In the given exemplary test network, the SIB can exclude
TDR1 and TDR2 from the scan path such that the network
only includes TDR3. For this purpose, a ‘0’ should be shifted
into the SIB’s update register such that the multiplexer inside
the SIB selects the port ‘0’ and disconnects the upper part of
the circuit.
SoC designs often introduce dedicated modules for the built-
in self-test of the memory or the logic itself. However, these
modules have highly deviating requirements concerning the
test time and energy consumption, which depend on the test
type and the component-under-test. As the overall test time has
a direct effect on the test cost, obtaining an optimized access
sequence to the built-in self-test modules improves the test
procedure. On the other hand, using on-chip scan structures
creates power issues in non-functional operating conditions,
which can violate the power speciﬁcation. This can in turn 978-1-7281-9457-8/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE
--- PAGE 2 ---
SIBpost1SIB1
SIB2
SIB4SIB6
SIB7SIB5
SIB3
SIBpost2SIBpost3
SCB3
WI1
0 1
SMux20 1
WI6WI7
WI8 WI3WI2WI5
SMux30 1
WI4void1
SCB2SCB1TAP ControllerTDI
TCK
TMSTRST
TDOSI
SO
SMux1Fig. 2. Mingle network from ITC’16 benchmark suite
lead to unreliable test results [5], [6].
This paper analyzes the instrument access latency over
complex IJTAG networks and invokes a test scheduling method,
which considers the network’s power constraints. By this,
an optimized test plan is generated, which allows to reduce
the overall test access time signiﬁcantly. More precisely, this
paper proposes a framework to calculate the minimum IJTAG
instrument access latency by modeling it as a directed graph
shortest path problem. Furthermore, this work discusses in
detail how the access latency and the network conﬁguration
affect the power considerations. The main contribution concerns
the identiﬁcation of critical read and write paths in a given
IJTAG network while considering the resulting latency such
that these paths can be avoided in the network design phase.
Moreover, the proposed framework investigates the possible
concurrency of selected instruments such that none of the given
power domain constraints are violated.
The structure of this paper is as follows: At ﬁrst, a brief
overview on prior works about IJTAG is given and the
mechanisms of these test networks are brieﬂy presented in
Section II. The proposed graph-based model is presented in
Section III, which allows representing an IJTAG network while
considering multiple power domains. This is followed by a de-
scription of the proposed algorithm to calculate the (read/write)
latency of IJTAG instruments in Section IV. Furthermore, two
different power considerations for the networks are discussed
in Section V. Finally, the experimental results are presented in
Section VI and the conclusion are drawn in Section VII.
II. R ELATED WORK AND BACKGROUND
Several methods have been proposed in [3], [7]–[15] to
improve different features of the IJTAG network, including
test access time calculation, retargeting access time reduction,
securing the IJTAG network and test scheduling. However,
some of these works like [10] consider purely SIB-based
networks to reduce the modeling complexity. Here, the full
SI
FSO SOTSI
SIBa
bFig. 3. SIB model for an IJTAG graph representation
potential of IJTAG remains unexploited since components
like ScanMuxes are not considered when focusing on these
SIB-based networks. In works like [11], [16], only networks
are processed that include instruments with dedicated SIBs,
which is typically not given within arbitrary networks. Besides
this, an algorithm for calculating the overall access time is
presented in [9]. The authors in [11] propose an optimization
technique to minimize the SIB programming overhead when the
instruments are accessed by using a hybrid scheduling scheme.
An optimized pattern retargeting is investigated in [12] by
projecting it onto a pseudo-Boolean optimization problem and
then using an optimization-based Boolean Satisﬁability (SAT)
solving algorithm to determine an optimum scan sequence.
This method is improved in [13] by presenting a new bound
calculation method to minimize the number of SAT solver
invocations. In [14], an on-chip access method, as required for
dynamic retargeting, is proposed by mapping the network to a
selection dependency graph. A parallel-IJTAG architecture is
proposed in [8] to provide higher bandwidth for accessing the
instruments by dividing k-bit TDRs into n(k=n)-bit TDRs and
replacing every single SIB with nSIBs. Parallel testing has
been discussed in [15] by proposing a broadcast IJTAG network
for accessing replicated copies of embedded cores. The use of
scan architectures leads to higher power demand and this makes
SoCs more prone to issues like IR-drop and test failures [17].
Therefore, due to the high power consumption of built-in self-
test modules during the test mode compared to the functional
operation, only a subset of cores can be in execution mode at
any time in a power domain. Thus, the remaining components
of this power domain have to remain inactive [18]. In [10],
[11] optimization methods for test scheduling are presented,
which consider power constraints in a network with only one
global power domain. However, despite these works which try
to design a network from scratch to obtain an optimized access
time, this paper investigates a given network to extract the
restrictions imposed by its own structure and then performs the
test scheduling according to the power constraints. In addition,
the model proposed in this paper is applicable to the networks
containing instruments with both exclusive and non-exclusive
SIBs.
The IJTAG standard [3] introduces two programming lan-
guages namely Instrument Connectivity Language (ICL) and
Procedural Description Language (PDL). ICL reﬂects the
intended test network on an abstract level. More precisely,
ICL describes only those components that allow access to
the instrument through the network and does not include any
of the functional logic of the design [3]. The sequence of
operations needed for accessing an instrument is deﬁned by
--- PAGE 3 ---
SIB2_a
SIB2_bWI1 Void1SCB1
SCB2
SOsMux1 SIB3_a
SIB3_bSIBpost1_a
SIBpost2_bSIB4_a
WI3
SIBpost1_b
SIBpost2_a
WI4WI2
SIB4_b
sMux2SI
SIB1_a
SIB1_bSIB5_a SIBpost3_a
SCB3SIB5_bWI5
SIB6_b
sMux3SIB6_a
WI6WI7
SIB7_bSIB7_a
WI8
SIBpost3_bFig. 4. Equivalent graph of the Mingle network
PDL. In particular, PDL speciﬁes a set of stimuli and expected
responses to operate the instruments, which are prepended
to any arbitrary test data. At a higher hierarchical level, the
instrument level procedures should be translated into the desired
level described by ICL. This process of translating to the target
module is called retargeting. PDL enables to apply read and
write commands simultaneously to different instruments on the
IJTAG network, providing that these instruments can already
be accessed concurrently via the paths as deﬁned by the ICL
netlist. As shown in Fig. 2, the Mingle network from the
IEEE 1687 Std. Benchmark suite [19] is an example of an
IJTAG network, in which SIBs, SCBs, and ScanMuxes provide
reconﬁgurable access to the instruments.
III. P ROPOSED NETWORK MODEL
This section describes the proposed model for generic
IJTAG network, which contains both SIB as well as ScanMux
components. The scan network of Fig. 2 is transformed into a
directed graph by parsing the ICL netlist, as shown in Fig. 4.
Every SCB and ScanMux is represented by one node and each
SIB is modeled with two nodes indexed as ‘a’ and ‘b’ as
demonstrated in Fig. 3. TDRs are labeled as WI1-WI8. For
further clarity of the created graph, only the data path is shown
in Fig. 4 and the control signals are ignored. A weight factor is
assigned to every vertex according to the number of bits in the
register of the instruments that are placed along the data path.
Therefore, weights of SIBs and SCBs are 1 and ScanMuxes
do not have weight.
Deﬁnition 1. In directed graph G(V;E ), a vertex2V
represents a component of the scan network and an edge e2E
is a part of the scan chain that connects two components. Let
w(e)be the weight of the edge e and let p()andt()be the
power consumption and execution time of the node v.
The shortest path from the ScanIn node to a given vertex v is
called write latency and the shortest path from the vertex to the
ScanOut node is called read latency. Dijkstra’s algorithm [20]
is a well-known method for solving the single-source shortest
path problem for a graph with non-negative edge weight, whichruns in time O(jEjlogjVj). Since the time to access a scan
segment in a reconﬁgurable scan network is proportional to the
length of the scan path, Dijkstra’s method can be employed to
calculate the instrument access latency in IJTAG networks. The
process starts by assigning a 0 distance to the source vertex
and labeling it as visited1. In the next step, the distance of
the neighbor nodes from the currently visited node is updated
if the new distance is less than their initial distance. When
all the neighbors are visited, the closest unvisited vertex is
added to the shortest path and is selected for the next visit.
This procedure continues until the shortest paths to all vertices
are obtained.
IV. L ATENCY CALCULATION
To obtain the minimum access latency for an instrument
in the IJTAG network graph, it is assumed that the network
has access to all hierarchies. Dijkstra’s algorithm operates on
the graphs with weighted edges. However, since any vertex
cost function can be expressed as a constrained edge cost
function, we can apply it on our graph, in which the vertex
cost function f(v)>0is deﬁned as the size of instrument’s
registers. As proved in [21], an arbitrary cost function f(v)>0
is equivalent to a cost function g(u;v)>0deﬁned over the
set of edges, in which the cost of each edge is the average of
the costs of the vertices it connects:
g(u;v) =f(u) +f(v)
2
Therefore, if we deﬁne graph G= (V;E )with weighted
verticesu2V;v2Vas follows:
E=feje=uv;w u=weight (u);wv=weight (v);
we=weight (e) = 0g
The modiﬁed graph G0= (V0;E0)with unweighted vertices
u02V0;v02V0and weighted edges can be solved using
Dijkstra’s algorithm with the complexity O(jEj+jVjlogjVj):
E0=fe0je0=u0v0;u0=u;v0=v;w u0=wv0= 0;
we0=(wu+wv)
2g
Accessing an instrument in an IJTAG network, i.e., writing
data to this instrument, ﬁrst requires to establish a path from
the scan-in port of the top module to that instrument. However,
for the read cycle, the path starts from the instrument and ends
at the main scan-out port. Thus, the shortest path for both parts
of the scan-chain has to be calculated to reﬂect a complete
read-write cycle. Since Dijkstra’s solution provides the shortest
paths from one vertex to all other vertices, the calculation
has to be conducted for two scan-in and scan-out nodes only,
which allows obtaining the shortest read-write chain for every
instrument. This prevents two runs of Dijkstra’s algorithm for
every instrument in the network, saving run-time. The only
difference is that the algorithm from the scan-out port should
be applied to the graph after reversing the direction of all edges.
Algorithm 1 describes the process of ﬁnding the shortest chain
1Note that the initial distance to other nodes would be inﬁnity that have
not been visited yet.
--- PAGE 4 ---
S
I
S
O
S
I
B
1
S
I
B
2
S
I
B
5
S
I
B
6
W
I
5
W
I
6WI5
WI6
Access Time Execution TimeOverlapping
t
(a) (b)Fig. 5. Concurrent access to WI5 and WI6 in mingle benchmark network (a)
an the execution time overlapping (b).
Algorithm 1: Determining the shortest chain in IJTAG
Input: ICL; maximumLatency
Output: read=writeLatency; shortestChain
1G(V; E ) =Parse (ICL );
2function ModifyGraph (G):
3 foreach (e=uv2E)do
4 we0=wu+wv
2;
5 wu0=wv0= 0;
6 end
7 G= (V0; E0);
8end
9G0=ModifyGraph (G);
10shortestWritePath =Dijkstra from scan-in (G0);
11G00=ReverseEdges (G0);
12shortestReadPath00=Dijkstra from scan-out (G00);
13shortestReadPath =Reverse (shortestReadPath00);
14foreach (v2V)do
15 writeLatency =P
shortestWritePathregisters ;
16 readLatency =P
shortestReadPathregisters ;
17 ifreadLatency > maximumLatency _
writeLatency > maximumLatency then
18 print "Latency Violation";
19 else
20 shortestChain =
shortestWritePath +shortestReadPath ;
21 end
22 end
23end
including a given instrument and checking the path for possible
latency violations.
V. P OWER ANALYSIS
With the increase in the number of IP blocks in SoC designs,
power consumption has emerged as a major design constraint.
Therefore, power management and energy awareness consider-
ing multiple power domains have gained great importance in the
latest SoC designs. Therefore, besides the read and write latency
analysis, the power constraint has to be further investigated.
This issue is discussed for both, the concurrent as well as
sequential test scheduling in Section V-A and Section V-B,
respectively.
****
D***
 X***
XA**
 XX**
 DX**
 DA**
XXXX
 XXXB
 XXCX
 XXCB
 XAXX
 XAXB
 XACX
 XACB
 DXXB
 DXXX
 DXCB
 DXCX
XAX*
 XAC*
 DXX*
 DXC*
 XXX*
 XXC*
(a,b)=(power consumption, active instruments)
X : inactive instrument
* : undecided instrument placeholder
Power consumption limit=16 (9,1)
(17,2) (9,1) (0,2) (0,0)
(0,0) (9,1) (14,2) (5,1) (8,1)(0,0)(0,0)
(0,0) (0,1) (5,1) (8,2) (8,1) (11,2) (13,2) (16,3) (9,1) (12,2) (14,2) ( 17,3)
power Instrument D   A   C   B
985 3(13,2)Fig. 6. Checking the power constraint for concurrent execution of four
instruments: A, B, C, D
A. Concurrent Access
The instruments in an IJTAG network can be accessed either
concurrently or sequentially. In concurrent access, the required
data for instruments are concatenated before applying to the
network and then shifted into the TDRs of the established chain.
Therefore, access to all instruments in the chain occurs at the
same time. Consequently, the instruments start the execution
phase simultaneously. For instance, in Fig. 5a, the chain is
conﬁgured during the concurrent access such that it includes
the concurrent TDRs. Fig. 5b shows that WI5 andWI6 overlap
in execution phase as soon as their connected components start
running. The investigation of the power constraints during this
access method is about checking whether the sum of power
consumption of concurrently running instruments exceeds the
maximum allowed power limit. All possible combinations of
the instruments have to be checked to determine the maximum
allowed concurrent nodes. The overall number of possible
activated instruments would bePn
i=0C(n;i). Fig. 6 depicts
how the dynamic analysis contributes (a) to the search space
reduction and (b) to ﬁnd power constraint violation in a scan-
chain consisting of four instruments. In each branch division
of the tree (as given in Fig. 6), the inclusion or the exclusion
of one component is investigated. The asterisk symbols (*)
indicate that no decision has been made yet. The X marks
indicate that the related instrument is excluded and should
not be in execution mode. For every box, the total power of
the included components would be calculated. In the case of
any violations as in "DA**" , the algorithm stops investigating
the sub-branches and issues a violation warning. In the last
level of the tree, it can be seen that four instruments can run
concurrently in six different combinations. It should be noted
that white boxes, which include less than two instruments, are
not required to be checked, given that all instruments already
comply with the power consumption requirements. Therefore,
these boxes cannot exceed the power limit.
Concurrent access to instruments is not always possible
in the IJTAG network. For instance, no chain can be found
to include both WI5 andWI7, as stated in Fig. 2. Thus, the
ﬁrst step before investigating the power requirements is about
checking the possibility of concurrency. As shown in Fig. 4,
--- PAGE 5 ---
Concurrency TableSIW3, W4
SIB4_b
sMuxW4
W1W1 SIB2_b SIB2_a W2SIB1_bW3, W4
SIB3_b SIB3_aSIB4_a W3
SIB1_aSO
W1, W2 W1W1, W2
W1, W2W3, W4 W3 W3
W1, W2
W3, W4W1, W2
W3, W4Fig. 7. Identifying concurent groups in an IJTAG network
the IJTAG network constitutes an acyclic directed graph. Every
node in this network is located on a path that starts from TDI
and ends at TDO. As a result, the number of the concurrent
chains is equal to the number of paths from TDI to TDO. In
other words, the set of instruments on such paths are suitable
to be included in one access chain. Otherwise, the concurrent
access to the instruments is not possible and the sequential
access should be considered, as stated in Section V-B. Fig. 7
depicts a graph representation of an IJTAG network, which
contains four instruments labeled as W1-W4. Every node is
assigned a table with all possible concurrent instruments that
can be visited through all traversals from SI to that node. As
long as a new instrument is not visited, the concurrency table
is empty. Every node inherits the previous node’s data, and
when a new instrument is visited, it is added to the table. For
an exemplary vertex SIB2_b, which inherits the {W1} and
{W1, W2} tables via two different paths, {W1, W2} as the
super-set is assigned to SIB2_b. In a node like sMux, which
receives two different {W1, W2} and {W3, W4} tables, these
sets are merged as {W1, W2 | W3, W4}.
The traversal is performed according to Breadth-First-Search
(BFS) algorithm. As the BFS is running, vertices are divided
into three groups (1) closed nodes that are visited through all
their inputs and therefor their table will not be further updated,
(2) open nodes which are not visited yet and their tables are
empty and (3) semi-open nodes which are visited via part of
their inputs; the tables of these nodes have not received their
ﬁnal value. BFS would not proceed to the next stage unless all
tables of the current stage are updated with their ﬁnal values.
At the beginning of the next stage, all concurrency data of
these tables are transferred to the new semi-open nodes and
the previous tables are deleted. The concurrency table at SO
includes all instruments while providing the maximum possible
concurrency from the network structure perspective. Every
access scheduling scheme should consider the concurrency
groups to avoid any adverse impact on the scan chain. The
algorithm described in Fig. 6 allows investigating whether these
chains comply with the power constraints. After determining
the power compatible chains, a certain conﬁguration priority
has to be set. For instance, in the aforementioned example,
the priority of {W1, W2} and {W3, W4} should be deﬁned.
The sequence of conﬁguring these chains possibly affects both
test time and energy considerations, as described in the next
section in more detail.
5 2
1 7
4 4
2 3
2 3
4 4
5 2
1 7
4 4
5 2
2 3
1 7B
A
C
D
D
C
B
A
C
B
D
A
tFig. 8. Effect of the access sequence on the execution time
B. Sequential Access
In cases where concurrent access is not possible, instruments
are accessed sequentially. In other words, the IJTAG network
provides serial access to the instruments, i.e., shifting the
data to and from a TDR can be started only when access
to the previously scheduled instruments is ﬁnished. Even in
this circumstance, it is still likely that sequentially accessed
instruments have an overlapping execution time. For instance,
in Fig. 7 while the instruments on the chain SI-WI1-WI2-SO are
running, a new conﬁguration of the network can provide access
toSI-WI3-WI4-SO . However, the feasibility of the execution of
instruments on this chain depends on their power consumption.
When accessing the instruments on a chain, if the execution
of the instruments on the previously scheduled chain has been
ﬁnished, the instruments do not overlap. Consequently, these
instruments do not contribute to exceed the domain’s maximum
power limit. However, if a set of nodes is accessed while the
nodes accessed by the previous chain are still under execution,
the power constraint has to be checked to ensure that the power
requirements are met. Fig. 8 shows the sequential access to
four chains in three different sequential orders. Each vector
is divided into two parts. The left part shows the access time
and the right part represents the maximum execution time
of the instruments on a chain. The dim areas present the
cases, in which the instruments of two chains are running
simultaneously. Changing the order of access directly affects
the execution time overlapping and, consequently, alters the
concurrent power consumption. Given nchains, the total
number of permutations is n!, which has been considered to
determine the least overlapping candidate. However, as long as
the overlapping does not cause a power violation, it is possible
to assume a related order. Fig. 8 demonstrates that the overall
test time varies only according to the execution time of the
last chain in the sequence and, hence, accessing the chain that
has the minimum execution time after other chains reduces the
overall test time signiﬁcantly.
VI. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS
This section presents the experimental results when applying
the proposed scheme to the Mingle, BasicSCB, TreeFlat,
q12710, N17D3, N32D6 , and H953 networks from the
ITC’16 benchmark set [19]. The overall framework is written
in C++ and all experiments have been conducted on a machine
holding an Intel Core i7-8565U processor and 16GB of main
--- PAGE 6 ---
TABLE I
BENCHMARK RESULTS
Network #(Nodes,Edges) #Inst. #Conc. Groups Max Write Latency Min Write Latency Max Read Latency Min Read Latency
Cmplx. Name Clk Inst. Name Clk Inst. Name Clk Inst. Name Clk Inst. Name
B Mingle (35,39) 8 4 51 WI6, WI8 18 WI5, WI7 24 WI3 18 WI1
BasicSCB (31,42) 5 2 19 WI4, WI5 16 WI1 20 WI2 18 WI5
TreeFlat (48,61) 11 1 26 WI_10 4 WI_0 27 WI_0 5 WI_10
H953 (149,150) 47 1 194 m1::wrpOut 8 wrpIn 234 m1::wrpIn 22 m6::wrpOut
C q12710 (77,78) 23 1 1,900 m2::wrpIn 221 m1::sc3 1,908 m2::wrpIn 13 m2::sc1
A N17D3 (57,66) 27 256 189 R21 5 R16A 103 R11t 7 R5B
N32D6 (90,114) 44 1024 20030 R22B 834 R31 16973 R15B 55 R0A
memory. The considered benchmark networks are divided
in three different complexity classes as follows: Basic (B),
Classic (C) and Advanced (A). Table I presents the number of
nodes, edges and instances in the graph that is created from the
aforementioned networks. The maximum and minimum latency
are further calculated in clock cycles for writing and reading
the data to and from the instruments inside these networks.
The paths to the instruments that have the maximum read
or write latency are considered as critical paths, therefore,
placing an instrument that requires a large number of read or
write accesses would result in higher test time and should be
avoided. Some names of the instruments in the Table I, like
them2::wrpIn , include the information of the hierarchy of the
component in the ICL netlist. In this case, wrpIn represents an
instrument inside the module M2, which is instantiated under
the name m2 in the top module. The number of concurrent paths
when - all SIBs are opened - is shown in the fourth column
of Table I. It can be noted that q12710 ,TreeFlat andH953
have one concurrent path, which includes all instruments of the
network. In contrast to this, the N32D6 network holds a large
number of 1,024 concurrent paths. The results show that the
presented graph model as proposed by this paper, is exploited
successfully to calculate the access latency of instruments in
all three complexity groups of IJTAG network benchmarks.
Furthermore, the proposed method extracts possible concurrent
paths in these networks, which provides more accurate overview
of IJTAG network for scheduling purposes.
VII. C ONCLUSION
This paper proposed a novel test scheduling technique for
complex IJTAG test networks, which considers for the ﬁrst-time
multiple power domains. In particular, the main contributions
of this paper were as follows: At ﬁrst, the deliberate network
analysis to identify the chains that can include instrument,
which are executed in a concurrent fashion, and, secondly, the
power consumption analysis over the identiﬁed chains (with the
concurrently executed instruments) to ensure compliance with
the given power restriction of the individual domain. In the
end, the proposed technique determined an optimized test plan,
which was fully compliant with the given power restriction on
the individual power domain. The proposed technique ensured
to avoid any unintended test failures, for instance, due to IR-
drop, when determining an optimized test plan.
VIII. A CKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the AI initiative of the Free
Hanseatic City of Bremen. The authors gratefully thank StephanEggersglüß from Mentor Graphics (Germany) for the inspiring
research discussions and thoughtful feedback.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Baranowski, M. A. Kochte, and H.-J. Wunderlich, “Reconﬁgurable scan net-
works: Modeling, veriﬁcation, and optimal pattern generation,” ACM Transactions
on Design Automation of Electronic Systems (TODAES) , vol. 20, no. 2, 2015.
[2] A. Damljanovic, A. Jutman, G. Squillero, and A. Tsertov, “Post-silicon validation
of IEEE 1687 reconﬁgurable scan networks,” in IEEE European Test Symposium
(ETS) , 2019, pp. 1–6.
[3] “IEEE standard for access and control of instrumentation embedded within a
semiconductor device,” IEEE Std 1687-2014 , pp. 1–283, 2014.
[4] “IEEE standard for test access port and boundary-scan architecture,” IEEE Std
1149.1-2013 , pp. 1–444, 2013.
[5] H. Dhotre, S. Eggersglüß, K. Chakrabarty, and R. Drechsler, “Machine learning-
based prediction of test power,” in IEEE European Test Symposium (ETS) , 2019,
pp. 1–6.
[6] P. Girard, N. Nicolici, and X. Wen, Power-aware testing and test strategies for
low power devices . Springer Science & Business Media, 2010.
[7] M. A. Kochte, R. Baranowski, and H. Wunderlich, “Trustworthy reconﬁgurable
access to on-chip infrastructure,” in IEEE International Test Conference in Asia
(ITC-Asia) , 2017, pp. 119–124.
[8] S. Gupta, A. Crouch, J. Dworak, and D. Engels, “Increasing ijtag bandwidth
and managing security through parallel locking-sibs,” in IEEE International Test
Conference (ITC) , 2017, pp. 1–10.
[9] F. G. Zadegan, U. Ingelsson, G. Carlsson, and E. Larsson, “Access time analysis
for IEEE p1687,” IEEE Transactions on Computers (TOC) , vol. 61, no. 10, pp.
1459–1472, 2012.
[10] F. G. Zadegan, U. Ingelsson, G. Asani, G. Carlsson, and E. Larsson, “Test
scheduling in an IEEE p1687 environment with resource and power constraints,”
inIEEE Asian Test Symposium (ATS) , 2011, pp. 525–531.
[11] S. S. Nuthakki, R. Karmakar, S. Chattopadhyay, and K. Chakrabarty, “Optimization
of the IEEE 1687 access network for hybrid access schedules,” in IEEE VLSI Test
Symposium (VTS) , 2016, pp. 1–6.
[12] R. Baranowski, M. A. Kochte, and H. Wunderlich, “Scan pattern retargeting and
merging with reduced access time,” in IEEE European Test Symposium (ETS) ,
2013, pp. 1–7.
[13] R. Krenz-Baath, F. G. Zadegan, and E. Larsson, “Access time minimization in
IEEE 1687 networks,” in IEEE International Test Conference (ITC) , 2015, pp.
1–10.
[14] A. Ibrahim and H. G. Kerkhoff, “Analysis and design of an on-chip retargeting
engine for IEEE 1687 networks,” in IEEE European Test Symposium (ETS) , 2016,
pp. 1–6.
[15] S. Gupta, J. Wu, and J. Dworak, “Efﬁcient parallel testing: A conﬁgurable and
scalable broadcast network design using IJTAG,” in IEEE VLSI Test Symposium
(VTS) , 2018, pp. 1–6.
[16] F. G. Zadegan, U. Ingelsson, G. Carlsson, and E. Larsson, “Design automation
for IEEE p1687,” in Design, Automation and Test in Europe Conference (DATE) ,
2011, pp. 1–6.
[17] H. Dhotre, S. Eggersglüß, and R. Drechsler, “Cluster-based localization of ir-drop
in test application considering parasitic elements,” in IEEE Latin American Test
Symposium (LATS) , 2019, pp. 1–4.
[18] A. M. Rahmani, M. Haghbayan, A. Miele, P. Liljeberg, A. Jantsch, and H. Ten-
hunen, “Reliability-aware runtime power management for many-core systems in
the dark silicon era,” IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration Systems
(TVLSI) , vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 427–440, 2017.
[19] “IEEE std. 1687 benchmark networks,” 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://gitlab.com/IJTAG/benchmarks
[20] E. W. Dijkstra et al. , “A note on two problems in connexion with graphs,”
Numerische mathematik , vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 269–271, 1959.
[21] M. Barbehenn, “A note on the complexity of Dijkstra’s algorithm for graphs with
weighted vertices,” IEEE Transactions on Computers (TOC) , vol. 47, no. 2, pp.
263–, 1998.
