--- PAGE 1 ---
 
Scheduling Tests for 3D Stacked Chips under Power Constraints 
BreetaSenGupta  Urban Ingelsson  Erik Larsson  
Department of Computer and Information Science 
Linköping University 
SE-581 83 LINKÖPING, SWEDEN 
Email: (breeta.sengupta, urban.ingelsson, erik.larsson) @liu.se 
 
Abstract- This paper addresses Test Application Time (TAT) 
reduction for core-based 3D Stacked ICs (SICs). Applying 
traditional test scheduling methods used for non-stacked chip 
testing where the same test schedule is applied both at wafer test 
and at final test to SICs, leads to unnecessarily high TAT. This is 
because the final test of 3D-SICs includes the testing of all the 
stacked chips. A key challenge in 3D-SIC testing is to reduce TAT 
by co-optimizing the wafer test and the final test while meeting 
power constraints. We consider a system of chips with cores 
equipped with dedicated Built-In-Self-Test (BIST)-engines and 
propose a test scheduling approach to reduce TAT while meeting 
the power constraints. Depending on the test schedule, the control 
lines that are required for BIST can be shared among several 
BIST engines. This is taken into  account in the test scheduling 
approach and experiments show significant savings in TAT. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Integrated circuits (ICs) with multiple chips (dies), so called 
3D Stacked ICs (SICs), have recently attracted a fair amount of 
research [1-5]. A 3D-SIC is obtained by stacking and bonding 
individual chips, which are connected by Through-Silicon Vias 
(TSVs). Due to imperfections in IC manufacturing, each 
individual chip must be tested. Recent research has addressed 
test architecture design for 3D-SICs [6], testing the TSVs [1-6] 
and 3D-SIC-specific defects [1, 2]. 
Testing each individual chip is required for both 3D-SICs and 
traditional non-stacked ICs. Because, IC packaging is costly 
[7], each chip is tested twice: (1) in wafer sort test, where the 
bare die is tested (pre-bond test), and (2) in final test where the 
packaged IC is tested (post-bond test). For non-stacked chips 
the same test schedule is applied in both pre-bond and post-
bond test. However, for a 3D-SIC the process is different. As 
will be discussed in this paper, applying the same test schedule 
for both pre-bond and post-bond tests in a 3D-SIC leads to 
sub-optimal Test Application Time (TAT). TAT is defined as 
the sum of the testing times for pre-bond tests and post-bond 
tests. TAT , is a major part of the overall test cost. Hence it is 
important to schedule the tests for 3D-SIC so that TAT is 
minimized, which is addressed in this paper. 
Much work has addressed test scheduling for non-stacked 
chips with the objective of minimizing TAT [8, 9]. For core-
based systems where each core is to be tested, the main 
method of reducing TAT is to perform core tests concurrently. 
However, performing tests concurrently leads to higher power 
consumption than performing them sequentially. The test 
power consumption must be kept under control [9], to avoid 
false test positives due to voltage drop and damage due to 
overheating. For core-based systems, Chou et al. [9] proposed a 
method to schedule tests in sessions while taking resource 
conflicts and power consumption into account. A session is a 
group of tests that start at the same time. In the context of systems where each core has a dedicated Built-In Self Test 
(BIST) engine, all the core tests that are scheduled in the same 
session can be initiated using a single control line. As a rule, a 
low number of sessions is beneficial, since it leads to a low 
number of control lines and implies that several tests are 
performed concurrently, leading to a low TAT [8, 9, 10]. The 
studies in [8, 9, 10] address test scheduling for non-stacked 
chips under power constraints. However, no work has yet  
addressed test scheduling for 3D-SICs under power 
constraints, which is the topic of this paper. We propose a 
power constrained test scheduling approach, which considers a 
two-chip 3D-SIC design, consisting of cores, each equipped 
with a dedicated BIST-engine. In this context we present an 
analysis of the test scheduling problem in Section II leading to 
an approach in Section III. The experimental results are in 
Section IV and the conclusions are in Section V. 
II. PROBLEM  ANALYSIS 
Figure 1 shows a chip with three cores where each core is 
tested by its BIST test. Two parameters are associated with 
each test: test time and power consumption. The test controller, 
which is a Finite State Machine (FSM) determines when the 
test for each core is initiated. Figure 2 shows a test schedule 
for the tests of the three cores of the Figure 1, which have been 
scheduled as per [8] where the TAT is minimized and the 
power consumption at any moment is less than the maximal 
allowed power consumption Pmax, which is indicated by a 
horizontal line. The test schedules are represented with blocks 
for the core tests, where the height of a block is the power 
consumption for the test and the width of the block is the test 
time. The x-axis shows the time taken to perform the tests, and 
the y-axis marks the power consumption. Two types of 
constraints are considered for the test schedule. The first 
constraint type is a resource constraint which determines that 
two tests are not to be performed concurrently and the second 
constraint type is a constraint regarding the maximum power 
consumption, Pmax, which cannot be exceeded. The test 
schedule contains three sessions: Session1, Session2 and 
Session3, as marked in the figure.  This chip is a single-die IC, 
so the same test schedule is applied at pre-bond test (wafer 
sort) and post-bond test (final test).  ܶܣܶ ൌ  ܥ1 ൅  ܥ1 , as the 
same test schedule is run twice. 
Figure 3 shows a 3D-SIC where Chip1 (from Figure 1) is 
stacked on top of Chip2. The testing of the 3D-SIC requires 
pre-bond test of Chip1 and Chip2 and a post-bond test of the 
stacked chip that tests the whole SIC by including tests for the 
cores in Chip1 and Chip2. While testing of TSVs is important, 
the actual test time is fixed and relatively low. In this paper, 
the testing of TSVs is not addressed. The test durations and 
2011 Sixth IEEE International Symposium on Electronic Design, Test and Application
978-0-7695-4306-2/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/DELTA.2011.2378
2011 Sixth IEEE International Symposium on Electronic Design, Test and Application
978-0-7695-4306-2/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/DELTA.2011.2372
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
power consumption values for each core tests are provided in 
Table 1. The power constraint value is , Pmax = 20 units.  
 
 
Figure 1: Chip with 3 cores. 
 
Figure 2: Test schedule of Chip1. 
Prior to bonding chips into 3D-SIC, , each chip can be 
considered as individual non-stacked chips and the methods in 
[8, 9] apply for generating the pre-bond test schedules. Figure 
4 shows an example of the pre-bond test schedules for the two 
chips, Chip1 and Chip2, from Table 1. The test schedule for 
Chip1 contains three sessions (Session  1, Session  2 and 
Session  3) and the test schedule for Chip2 contains two sessions (Session  4 and Session  5) as shown in the figure. The 
test time for the schedules as obtained by [8] are C1 and C2 for 
Chip1 and Chip2, respectively.  
 
Figure 3: 3D-SIC of Chip1 and Chip2. 
Table 1: Test time and power consumption for core tests in Chip1 and Chip2. 
Chips Tests Duration Power 
Chip1 T1 5 15 
T2 8 12 
T3 6 9 
Chip2 T4 2 7 
T5 7 8 
T6 5 9 
Once the chips have been stacked, each core of the chips again 
requires testing. We define three different approaches for test 
scheduling depending on the available knowledge from the 
pre-bond test. In this paper, the three approaches are called 
Serial Processing (SP), Partial Overlapping (PO) and 
ReScheduling (RS). 
In case the only knowledge of the pre-bond test schedules 
consist of the test time for the schedules and the fact that the 
pre-bond test schedules are within the power constraint, the 
limited knowledge available restricts the test schedules that are 
possible. In this case the post-bond tests are scheduled by 
Serial Processing , which is illustrated in Figure 4. With Serial 
Processing we mean that the test schedules of individual chips 
are run serially during post-bond testing. It should be noted 
that no tests from different  chips are performed concurrently, 
because ; otherwise we would risk exceeding the power limit. 
For Serial Processing, the time taken to run the post-bond test 
schedule is equal to the sum of the time taken to test the 
individual chips, which has been denoted by TAT SP in the 
figure. For the schedule in Figure 4, ܶܣܶ ௌ௉ ൌ  ܥ 1  ൅ ܥ 1  ൅
 ܥ2 ൅  ܥ2. 
    
Figure 4: Serial Processing. 
 
Figure 5: Partial Overlapping 
79
73
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
      
Figure 6: ReScheduling
If the maximum power reached by individual sessions and the 
test time for the sessions are known, post-bond scheduling by 
Partial Overlapping is possible. In Partial Overlapping, we 
utilize the knowledge of the test sessions to determine the 
power compatible test sessions of different chips that can be 
performed concurrently without exceeding the power 
constraint. Figure 5 . shows the Partial Overlapping test 
schedule. In the post-bond test schedule, test T3 of Chip1 
(Session3) and test T6 of Chip2 (Session4) are performed 
concurrently because they are power compatible. The pre-bond 
schedule of the chips remain unchanged, but there is a 
reduction in the TAT equal to the length of test T6 (Session4) 
and the resulting TAT PO is lesser than TAT SP. 
When full knowledge is available concerning individual tests 
and sessions of the pre-bond test schedules, ReScheduling  of 
the existing schedules can be performed. In the ReScheduling 
approach, knowledge of the pre-bond test schedules is utilized 
to create a post-bond test schedule to reduce test time. 
ReScheduling may cause changes to the pre-bond schedules. 
In this context, changing the pre-bond schedule means to split 
a session and replace it with two new sessions. The benefit of 
splitting a session is that the two new sessions can be 
scheduled concurrently with sessions of the other chip during 
post-bond test, if that reduces TAT. Figure 6 depicts the result 
of the ReScheduling approach. In the original pre-bond test 
schedule (Figure 4), Session4 consisted of tests T4 and T5. In 
the post-bond test schedule, after rescheduling , test T4, is 
performed serially with test T1, while test T5 is performed 
together with test T2. This results in a reduction of the post-
bond test time equal to the duration of test T5. ReScheduling 
results in splitting Session4 and renumbering the sessions, as 
shown in Figure 6, Session4 is test T 5, Session5 is test T 6 and 
Session6 is test T 4. But because of the splitting of the original 
Session4, there is an increase in the pre-bond test time for 
Chip2 from C2 to C2RS. The increase is equal to the duration of 
test T4, which is now performed serially with test T5. 
Compared to SP, the reduction in TAT is equal to the sum of 
the durations of tests T5 and T6, minus the duration of test T4. 
From the above, it can be seen that ReScheduling leads to 
lower TAT as compared to Serial Processing and Partial 
Overlapping, as is shown in Figure 6. However, in contrast to 
Serial Processing and Partial Overlapping, ReScheduling can 
lead to an increase in the number of control lines, as a result of 
splitting sessions. Our approach, detailed below, takes control 
lines into account. 
 III. PROPOSED  APPROACHES 
In this section we first detail the two approaches, Partial 
Overlapping (PO), and ReScheduling (RS), and then discuss 
the complexity of the approaches.  
PO can be considered as a special case of RS. PO considers 
only the knowledge of individual sessions, and no sessions are 
split in the process. Hence, PO can be obtained by disregarding 
Step1 of RS. 
RS is an approach in two steps as is described in the following. 
Before the first step, the initial pre-bond test for each chip is 
generated by the heuristic from [8]. Each session of the pre-
bond test schedules is given a unique number. 
 
Step1 : Figure 7 shows an 11 stage process for implementing 
Step1 of RS. The key idea is to group the tests of two pre-bond 
test sessions from different chips in two post-bond test sessions 
such that the long tests are grouped together and the short tests 
are grouped together. This way, there will be one long test 
session and one short test session, instead of the previous two 
long sessions. The sum of the newly formed session duration is 
less than for the two original test sessions. In stage 1 of Figure 
7, we consider two sessions, Sx and Sy, from the original pre-
bond test schedules of two different chips, ChipX and ChipY, 
respectively. In stage 2, the tests of Sx and Sy are arranged in 
descending order of length in a list called M. A post-bond 
session, Sa, is produced in stage 3. Starting from the first test in 
M, i.e. the test with the longest test time, move the test from M 
to the post-bond session Sa, as shown in stage 4, and stage 5 
checks if the total power of Sa is within the power constraint. 
Stage 4 and stage 5 are iterated as long as  the power constraint 
is met. As soon as Pmax is exceeded as a result of moving a test 
from M to Sa, that test is moved back to M (stage 6). A new 
post-bond session, Sb, is created with the remaining tests of list 
M, which is shown in stage 7. Post-bond sessions Sa and  
Sb contain all the tests from M. The pre-bond sessions Sx and 
Sy are split into test sessions (say Sxa, Sxb, Sya and Syb) 
according to how the tests were allocated in Sa and Sb. The 
modified TAT is calculated in stage 8. Stage 9 considers the 
TAT. If the new test schedule (pre-bond and post-bond) is 
shorter than the test schedule for SP, the value is included in 
Table 2 as in stage 10, as the entry for session Sx and session 
Sy. Otherwise, if there is no reduction the value is set to be 
zero. 
The process described above is repeated for all possible 
combinations of two sessions from the pre-bond test schedules 
80
74
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 of the two chips, as is shown in stage 11 of Figure 7. 
A key observation from the above is that pairs of sessions can 
be handled independently. If combining a pair of sessions as 
described by stage 1 to stage 11 leads to a reduction in TAT 
compared to the test schedule in SP, a new test schedule can be 
constructed by combining several such session pairs. The total 
reduction in TAT can be summed up from the reductions in test 
time when all session pairs have been considered, while each 
session has been taken into account only once. 
Step2:  This step involves the calculation of the maximum 
reduction in TAT from SP to RS (or PO) by considering all 
possible session pairs. Table 2 shows the possible reduction in 
TAT as a result of rescheduling a session of ChipX, as denoted 
by the column number, with a session of ChipY of the 
corresponding row number. Given Table 2, a schedule is 
generated by rescheduling each session of one chip with 
different sessions of the other chip, such that every session is 
considered only once. The sessions that are not rescheduled are 
added to the final schedule without any modification.  The 
objective is to find the combination of rescheduled session 
pairs, which give the minimum TAT. The values in Table 2 are 
obtained by rescheduling sessions of the example used during 
the problem formulation. For example, with respect to Figure 4, 
considering Session2 from Chip1 and Session4 from Chip2 
results in a reduction of 3 time units on rescheduling (as 
discussed in Step  1), compared to the time required to perform 
the original Session  2 of Chip1 and Session  4 of Chip2 
sequentially, as in SP. In case of PO, where no sessions are split, the values in the table would either be zero (when the 
sessions are not power compatible), or equal to the length of the 
smaller session. For example, it was not possible to reduce 
TAT by combining Session1 with Session4 as marked by 0 in 
Table 2. The test schedule and the total reduction in TAT are 
obtained by rescheduling each session of ChipY, (Chip2 in the 
example) with sessions of ChipX (Chip1 in the example). As 
discussed before, tests from Session  2 of Chip1 and tests from 
Session  4 of Chip2 upon rescheduling, result in a reduction of 3 
time units, while,  Session  5 of Chip2 with Session  3 of Chip1 
give a reduction of 5 time units. The sessions that result from 
the marked session pairs are included in the post-bond test 
schedule with the summed total of test time reduction adding 
up to 3൅5ൌ8  time units. The test time of the rescheduled 
session pairs are added to the remaining sessions to give TAT. 
Thus, the final post bond schedule has Session1 in series with 
the combination of Session2 with Session4 and Session3 with 
Session5. Thus TAT is 54 time units, obtained by reducing 8 
time units from TAT SP, which has 31 time units in both pre-
bond and post-bond. 
Table 2: Maximum possible time reduction of sessions where ChipX and ChipY 
refers to the algorithm and Chip1 and Chip2 refers to the example. 
 ChipX(Chip1) 
Session1 Session2 Session3 
ChipY(Chip2)Session4 0 3 2 
Session5 0 0 5 
Finding the combination of session pairs that give the minimum 
TAT on rescheduling requires comparison of all possible 1. Choose 2 sessions, Sx and Sy from different chips 
2. Sort individual tests of Sx and Sy in descending order of length. 
Call the list M 
3. Create a new post-bond session Sa  
4. Move the first test from M to Sa 
Yes No 
5. P max exceeded? 11. Change combination of Sx and Sy (until all possible 
session pairs are exhausted) 
No 
Yes 9. Reduction in TAT? 
10. Add reduction in Table 2  7. Post-bond session Sb is created with the remaining tests of M 
8. TAT calculated with modified pre-bond and post-bond schedules 6. Undo move the latest test from M to Sa 
Figure 7 Flow diagram for test scheduling 
81
75
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
combinations of session pairs, which is complex. To arrive at 
the complexity of exploring all possible schedules from Table 
2, say ChipX and ChipY have x and y number of sessions 
respectively, and that  ݔ ൒ ݕ . Then there are x columns and y 
rows. The first row has x values to choose from. Once a value 
is chosen, the row and column to which the value belongs are 
ignored and there remains ݔെ1  values to choose from in the 
second row. Thus, as we process each row, the number of 
choices decreases by one. This accounts for a factorial function 
that describes the number of possible sets of session pairs  . But, 
when ݕെ1  rows have been traversed the last value can be 
chosen from the remaining  ݕ – ݔ ൅  1  columns. Thus, the total 
number of ways, N, in which values can be selected from Table 
2, with each value from a unique row or column, is given by 
 ܰ ൌ  ሺ ݕ – ݔ ൅  1ሻ ⋅.!ݕ .Hence, for a total number of ten 
sessions each in two chips, N becomes as large as 3628800. 
Thus, it can be seen that the problem of selecting session pairs 
from Table 2 to explore all possible test schedules is difficult.  
Existing heuristics can be applied to obtain a schedule from 
Table 2. In the following we describe the greedy heuristic that 
has been used. Prior to applying the heuristic, the rows are first 
sorted in descending order of the highest value in each row and 
then the same procedure is applied for the columns. After the 
table has been sorted, an arbitrary starting value is chosen from 
the table. The highest value from the neighboring row is then 
considered along with it. The process is continued until all rows 
are exhausted. The sum of all the values corresponding to the 
session pairs considered for rescheduling give the net reduction 
in test time. Sessions that were not joined with other sessions 
are added to the list of session pairs to form the schedule. The 
particular combination of session pairs that lead to the schedule 
correspond directly to the pre-bond and post-bond test 
schedules for the stacked 3D design. The combination of 
session pairs that gives the largest reduction in terms of TAT 
and an acceptable number of BIST control lines, as determined 
by the designer of the stacked 3D chip, can be considered as the 
final schedule.  
To arrive to the final schedule, the heuristic is iterated K times, 
where K is the sum of the number of rows and columns, with 
different session pairs as starting point to produce a number of 
solutions that can be evaluated by the designer of the stacked 
3D chip with regard to the acceptable number of control lines. 
This results in Table 3 for the considered example. Schedule1 
is the result of combining Session2 with Session4 as well as 
Session3 with Session5. Schedule 2 is the result of combining 
Session2 with Session5. 
Table 3: TAT reduction versus increase  in number of BIST control lines 
Schedule  1 2 3 4 5 
TAT Reduction 8 2 3 5 0 
BIST Control Line Increase 1 1 1 0 0 
ReScheduling of sessions resulting in a reduction of TAT can 
lead to a corresponding increase in the number of BIST control 
lines due to splitting of sessions. Table 3 shows an example 
providing the reduction in TAT and the number of additional 
control lines for five of the test schedules produced by the 
proposed RS approach. Complexity of the approach:  Here we study the complexity of 
the RS approach. The approach consists of two steps, Step1 and 
Step2.  
In Step1 of the RS approach, the tests from two sessions are 
initially sorted by their test durations and stored in the list M. 
The average time complexity for quick-sort is O( ܰ ݃݋݈ ܰ ) for 
N tests. 
Step2 of the problem involves obtaining the maximum sum of 
individual elements from the matrix, taking one element from 
each row or column. As discussed, the solution space is large, 
so the greedy heuristic has been applied, which has a average 
time complexity of O( ܶ ݃݋݈ ܶ ,) where T is the number of 
elements in the matrix. Prior to applying the heuristic, the rows 
and columns were sorted in descending order of the value of 
individual elements. The sorting here is also done by quick-
sort, which has a complexity of O( ܶ ݃݋݈ .) Step 2 is iterated K 
times, where K is the sum of the number of rows and columns 
of the corresponding matrix. 
Thus the overall complexity of the approach is O(  ܶ ݃݋݈ ܶ .) 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL  RESULTS 
To demonstrate the benefits of the proposed test scheduling 
approach, this section describes an experiment to compare TAT 
achieved by Partial Overlapping (PO) and ReScheduling (RS) 
with TAT achieved by the straight forward Serial Processing 
(SP) approach, which is used as baseline. In the experiment, the 
power constraint is met and the number of BIST control lines 
required by different test schedules is taken into account. As 
the RS approach yields a table such as Table 3 with several 
different test schedule solutions where the acceptable number 
of control lines determines the final test schedule selection, the 
experiment is performed with the test schedule that results in 
the largest TAT reduction (8 time units in the case of Table 3).  
The initial pre-bond test schedules were generated by the 
approach in [8] and our approaches where applied for 
generating the post bond test schedule. The approach proposed 
in Section III was used to find the maximum reductions in TAT 
while considering the number of BIST control lines as the 
number of sessions in the example designs were in a reasonable 
range. 
The experiments are performed with the circuits ASIC Z [10], 
System L [10] and Muresan [8] (marked by Z, L and M 
respectively in Table 4) and these circuits were used to create 
3D-SICs.  These designs are seen as single-die chips and have 9  
[10], 14  [11] and 10  [8] cores, respectively. To make a 3D-SIC, 
two of the three single-die chips are combined. Groups of 
columns marked Chip1 and Chip2 respectively, show the chips  
that are combined into 3D-SICs, and groups of columns marked 
Chip1 & Chip2 and TAT contain experimental results 
regarding the combined 3D-SICs. To combine the Muresan 
design with ASIC Z or System L, such as in the fifth row of 
results in Table 4, adjustments were made on parameters 
because the values of those parameters in the original designs 
were given in different orders of magnitude. In the cases 
marked M* and M**, the parameter values (test time, test 
power consumption and power constraint) were scaled such 
that the pair of single-die chips that are combined into 3D-SICs
82
76
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
Table 4: Maximum possible reduction in time with increase in number of control lines. In the table: Z: ASIC Z, L: System L, M:M uresans’ Design, SP: Serial 
Processing Time, PO: Partial Overlapping Time, RS: ReScheduling Time, R( ൌࢀࡼࡿࢀ– ࡿࡾ
ࢀࡼࡿ :)Reduction 
 Chip1 
 Chip2 Chip1 & Chip2 TAT Incr. in 
control 
lines Pre-bond Test Pre-bond Test Post-Bond Test Pre-bond + Post-bond 
TSP T PO T RS R (%) T SP T PO T RS R (%) T SP T PO T RS R (%) T SP T PO T RS R (%) %(orig) 
Z 300 300 300 0 Z 300 300 300 0 600 560 560 6.7 1200 1160 1160 3.3 0 (6) 
L 1374 1374 1374 0 L 1374 1374 1592 -15.9 2748 2107 1592 42.1 5496 4855 4558 17.1 3 (36) 
M 26 26 27 -3.8 M 26 26 27 -3.8 52 52 48 7.7 104 104 102 1.9 20 (10) 
Z 300 300 300 0 L 1374 1374 1374 0 1674 1374 1374 17.9 3348 3048 3048 9.0 0 (16) 
Z 300 300 300 0 M* 520 520 520 0 820 780 780 4.9 1640 1600 1600 2.4 0 (8) 
L 1374 1374 1374 0 M** 1040 1040 1040 0 2414 1824 1824 24.4 4828 4238 4238 12.2 0 (18) 
have their parameter values in the same order of magnitude. It 
should be noted that this scaling of parameter values is only 
performed to enable the experiments. The results are collected 
in Table 4. The first group of four columns marked Pre-bond 
test for Chip1 show the test times for SP, PO and RS for the 
pre-bond schedules for Chip1. The fourth column in the group 
shows the relative reduction in pre-bond test time of RS 
compared to SP. It should be noted that a negative reduction is 
an increase. Similarly, the second group of four columns shows 
the Pre-bond test for Chip2. The third group of four columns 
marked Chip1 & Chip2, Post-bond test, show test time for the 
post-bond test schedule generated by the three approaches, and 
gives the relative amount of post-bond test time reduction 
achieved comparing the result for SP with the result for RS. 
The group of columns marked TAT includes the sum of the 
pre-bond test times and post-bond test times. The first three 
columns in the group of four show TAT for the SP, PO and RS 
approaches, respectively. The relative reduction in TAT is 
shown in the last of the four columns where RS is compared 
against SP. The right-most column of Table 4 , shows the 
relative increase in the number of control lines that result from 
splitting sessions in the RS approach. The number of control 
lines for the SP approach is shown in parenthesis. 
From Table 4, it can be seen that RS can achieve up to 42.1% 
reduction in the post-bond test schedule time in comparison to 
SP, when two chips of System L are stacked to form the 3D-
SIC. This is for the 3D-SIC consisting of two System L chips. 
This result can be explained by a high power constraint, which 
enables a beneficial post-bond test schedule where many core 
tests are performed concurrently. In particular for the design 
with two System L chips, one session was split, resulting in an 
additional control line and an increase in the pre-bond test 
schedule duration. The reduction in TAT was 17.1%. It should 
be noted that other 3D-SICs consisting of two identical chips 
(such as the pair of ASIC Z chips) does not lead to the same 
result. For the 3D-SIC design made up by a pair of ASIC Z 
chips, TAT was reduced by 3.3% and RS and PO achieved the 
same result. This corresponds to a case when it is not possible 
to reduce TAT by splitting sessions. In the six experiments, 
only two experiments led to splitting of sessions, which 
increased the number of BIST control lines. For the other four 
experiments, the reduction in TAT was achieved without 
splitting sessions and the best result achieved without splitting 
sessions was 12.2% reduction in TAT. V. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, the problem of power-constrained test scheduling 
for 3D Stacked Integrated Circuits (SICs) has been addressed  
for the first time. It is shown that the test planning for 3D-SICs 
is different, compared to the test planning for non-stacked ICs, 
and requires specific test scheduling solutions. The paper 
proposes two test scheduling approaches, Partial Overlapping 
and ReScheduling , that minimize test application time while 
taking power-constraints and the number of BIST control lines 
required to implement a test schedule into account.  The two 
scheduling approaches and a straight forward approach (Serial 
Processing) have been implemented and experiments with 
several benchmarks show up to 17.1% reduction in test 
application time and an average reduction of 7.7% in test 
application time with a 3.8% average increase in the number of 
BIST control lines over the Serial Processing scheme. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] E. J. Marinissen, Y. Zorian. Testing 3D Chips Containing Through-
Silicon Vias. IEEE ITC, paper ET1.1, pp. 1-11, 2009 . 
[2] H.-H. S. Lee and K. Chakrabarty. Te st Challenges for 3D Integrated 
Circuits. IEEE Design and Test of Computers, Special Issue on 3D IC Design 
and Test , pp. 26-35, Oct 2009 . 
[3] D. L. Lewis and H.-H. S. Lee. A Scan-Island Based Design Enabling 
Pre-bond Testability in Die-Stacked Microprocessors. IEEE ITC , paper 21.2, 
pp. 1-8, 2007 . 
[4] X. Wu, P. Falkenstern, and Y. Xie. Scan Chain Design for Three-
Dimensional Integrated Circuits (3D ICs). ICCD , pp. 208–214, 2007 . 
[5] Y.-J. Lee and S. K. Lim. Co-Optimiz ation of Signal, Power, and Thermal 
Distribution Networks for 3D ICs. Electrical Design of Advanced Packaging 
and Systems Symposium , pp. 163-166, 2008 . 
[6] B. Noia, S. K. Goel, K. Chakrabarty, E. J. Marinissen and J. Verbree. 
Test-Architecture Optimization for TSV-Based 3D Stacked ICs. IEEE ETS , 
pp. 24-29, May 2010 . 
[7] J. Verbree, E. J. Marinissen, P. Roussel and D. Velenis. On the Cost-
Effectiveness of Matching Repositories of Pre-Tested Wafers for Wafer-to-
Wafer 3D Chip Stacking. IEEE ETS , pp. 36-41, May 2010 . 
[8] V. Muresan, X. Wang, V. Muresan and M. Vladutiu. Greedy Tree 
Growing Heuristics on Block-Test Scheduling Under Power Constraints, 
JETTA , pp. 61-78,  2004 . 
[9] R. M. Chou, K. K. Saluja and V. D.  Agrawal. Scheduling tests for VLSI  
systems under power constraints. IEEE Trans. VLSI Systems, vol. 5, no.2, pp. 
175-185, June 1997 . 
[10] Y. Zorian. A Distributed BIST Control Scheme for Complex VLSI 
devices. IEEE VTS, pp. 6–11, April 1993 . 
[11] E. Larsson and Z. Peng.   An Integrated Framework for the Design and 
Optimization of SOC Test Solutions,   JETTA , Special Issue on Plug-and-Play 
Test Automation for System-on-a-Chip , vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 385-400, August 
2002 .
 
83
77
Authorized licensed use limited to: WUHAN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 09:35:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

